README.md, before:

# Numahop technical documentation. 

This documentation is using mdbook and schemaspy. 

Note: This documentation is very incomplete and in its early stages.

## Dependencies
### For building
- mdbook 
- mdbook-mermaid

### For updating the generated part of the documentation.

- A running NumaHOP instance.
- bash
- nu (Temporary: will be replaced by a mdbook preprocessor at a certain point. Used for the api page.)
- OpenJdk17
- wget
- schemaspy jar
- mariadb-j-connector jar

## Generated documentation.

Some part of the documentation is generated and
needs a Numahop Installation to the version for which you want to generate the
documentation. In the `scripts` folder there are the scripts used to update the
generated part of the documentation. In the `gen` folder there are the cached
generated documentation pieces allowing to build for the latest NumaHOP
release.


## Building and consulting offline. 

The `setup` rule of the makefile fetches the correct mdbook version, mdbook
preprocessors, and the schemaspy needed jars. But everything is compiled if you
don't trust fetching the compiled versions from the web you can fetch them
yourself. And place them in the vendor folder.

```bash
make setup # Only once when cloning the repository
make build
make open
```

To watch changes and rebuild the book on changes.
```bash
vendor/mdbook serve 
```

Caution when using `mdbook-serve` the db page is wiped in the output directory
by mdbook at each rebuild. See [#2573](https://github.com/rust-lang/mdBook/issues/2573#issuecomment-2703634877)
for more information.

Commit message:

Change the build process of the book.
The book can now have auto generated markdown files. This requires to have a
`build-src` temporary directory where all the markdown files are put in
the correct path before mdbook is ran. The include directory is a cache
of the auto generated markdown files that are either included in the markdown
step or html files patched in the final book.

README.md, after:

# Numahop technical documentation. 

This documentation is using mdbook and schemaspy. 

Note: This documentation is very incomplete and in its early stages.

## Dependencies
### For building
- mdbook 
- mdbook-mermaid

If you dont want to install these the makefile has a setup rule Downloading the needed executables from the github release pages. Use at your own risk.

### For updating the generated part of the documentation.

- A running NumaHOP instance.
- bash
- nu (Temporary: will be replaced by a mdbook preprocessor at a certain point. Used for the api pages.)
- OpenJdk17
- wget
- schemaspy jarfile
- mariadb-j-connector jarfile

## Generated documentation.

Some part of the documentation is generated and needs a runnning Numahop
Instance and/or a clone of the source code to the version for which you want to
generate the documentation. In the `scripts` folder there are the scripts used
to update the generated part of the documentation. In the `gen` folder there
are the cached generated documentation pieces allowing to build for the latest
NumaHOP release.

The build process is as folows: 
- Build the source tree of the book from the markdown in src and the generated markdown files in the `include` directory.
- Builds the mdbook book.
- Patch in the generated html files in the build directory.

## Building and consulting offline. 

The `setup` rule of the makefile fetches the correct mdbook version, mdbook
preprocessors, and the schemaspy needed jars. But everything is compiled if you
don't trust fetching the compiled versions from the web you can fetch them
yourself. And place them in the vendor folder.

```bash
make setup # Only once when cloning the repository
make build
make open
```

To watch changes and rebuild the book on changes. Note It can be a bit broken for autogenerated parts of the book. (See [#2573](https://github.com/rust-lang/mdBook/issues/2573#issuecomment-2703634877))
```bash
vendor/mdbook serve 
```
